808/about executors (#974)
grafana/k6-docs: src/data/markdown/translated-guides/en/02 Using k6/14 Scenarios/00 About scenarios/03 Dropped iterations.md

---
title: Dropped iterations
excerpt: Explanations about how your scenario configuration or SUT performance can lead to dropped iterations
---

> Sometimes, a scenario can't run the expected number of iterations.
> k6 tracks this number in a counter metric, `dropped iterations`.

Author: ```suggestion
Sometimes, a scenario can't run the expected number of iterations.
k6 tracks the number of unsent iterations in a counter metric, `dropped iterations`.
```

The number of dropped iterations can be valuable data when you debug executors or analyze results.

Dropped iterations usually happen for one of two reasons:
- The executor configuration is insufficient.
- The SUT can't handle the configured VU arrival rate.

### Configuration-related iteration drops

Dropped iterations happen for different reasons in different types of executors.

With `shared-iterations` and `per-vu-iterations`, iterations drop if the scenario reaches its `maxDuration` before all iterations finish.
To mitigate this, you likely need to increase the value of the duration.
  
With `constant-arrival-rate` and `ramping-arrival-rate`, iterations drop if there are no free VUs.
**If it happens at the beginning of the test, you likely just need to allocate more VUs.**

> If this happens later in the test, the dropped iterations might happen because of the SUT.

Author: ```suggestion
If this happens later in the test, the dropped iterations might happen because of the performance of the SUT is degrading.
```

### SUT-related iteration drops

> At a certain point of high latency or longer iteration durations, k6 can no longer send VUs at the configured rate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At a certain point of high latency or longer iteration durations, k6 will no longer have free VUs to start iterations with at the configured rate.
```

> If iterations drop later in the test run, your test SUT might have become slow to respond to requests, process iterations, or both.
> 
> At a certain point of high latency or longer iteration durations, k6 can no longer send VUs at the configured rate. 
> There could be a variety of causes for these dropped iterations:

Author: ```suggestion
At a certain point of high latency or longer iteration durations, k6 can no longer send VUs at the configured rate.
As a result, the executor will drop iterations.

The reasons for these dropped iterations varies:
```

> - The SUT response has become so long that k6 starts dropping scheduled VUs from the queue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The SUT response has become so long that k6 starts dropping scheduled iterations from the queue.
```

- The SUT iteration duration has become so long that k6 needs to schedule more VUs to reach the target arrival rate, exceeding the number of scheduled iterations.

> - Some network errors between the generator and the SUT have caused iterations to drop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This is not a thing that happens :sweat_smile: it might lead to interrupted iterations (e.g. an iteration that was already started but need to be stopped because we ran out of time), but we don't track these yet :disappointed:
